
# Bitcoin Monte Carlo Simulation

This repository contains a Python script `bitcoin_monte_carlo_sim.py` that performs a Monte Carlo simulation to analyze different investment strategies for Bitcoin. The script generates simulations of future price paths for Bitcoin based on its historical volatility and compares the outcomes of investing a lump sum versus employing a dollar-cost averaging (DCA) strategy over a specified time horizon.

## Overview

The Monte Carlo simulation is a computational algorithm that relies on repeated random sampling to obtain numerical results. In the context of financial investments like Bitcoin, it's used to forecast and understand the potential variability in investment returns. This script leverages historical price data of Bitcoin to simulate the future value of investments made either as a lump sum or through dollar-cost averaging.

## Features

- Fetches historical Bitcoin price data.
- Calculates historical volatility based on daily log returns.
- Simulates thousands of potential future price paths for Bitcoin.
- Compares the final portfolio value of lump-sum investment and DCA strategies.
- Visualizes the distribution of potential outcomes with histograms and includes average final portfolio values as annotations.

## Requirements

To run this script, you'll need Python 3 and the following Python libraries:

- `numpy`
- `pandas`
- `matplotlib`
- `seaborn`
- `pandas_datareader`
- `yfinance`

You can install these dependencies using `pip`:

```bash
pip install numpy pandas matplotlib seaborn pandas_datareader yfinance
```

## Usage

To execute the Monte Carlo simulation and generate the investment strategies comparison graph, simply run the script in your terminal:

```bash
python bitcoin_monte_carlo_sim.py
```

Ensure you have internet connectivity as the script fetches the latest Bitcoin price data online.

## Results Interpretation

The script outputs a graph showing the distribution of potential final portfolio values for both the lump-sum and DCA investment strategies. Additionally, it calculates and displays the average final portfolio value for each strategy directly on the graph. This information can help investors understand the risk and potential reward associated with each investment strategy in the context of Bitcoin's price volatility.

## Disclaimer

The results generated by this script are based on historical data and should not be taken as financial advice. The future performance of Bitcoin or any other investment cannot be predicted with certainty. Always conduct your own research and consider consulting with a financial advisor before making investment decisions.